# Installing PostgreSQL
Learn relational Databases is very important for the learning process around databases. Once you understand these principles, you can work with any database including non relational databases like MongoDB. This is true because the relational paradigm is much hard to grasp while the nonrelational, depending on the technologie, is much similar to a javascript object.

First of all, we must install a database user interface client. In my case, i installed the `DBeaver` that is an open source free software that does just that. This can be done with `pacman -S dbeaver` in arch linux systems. Then you need to install the `PostgreSQL` that will be used in the server creation, it can be done with `pacman -S postgresql`. It will create a `postgres` user in your machine. You can enter this user with the `sudo -iu postgres` command. Then, as this new user, to initialize the database, you call the `initdb -D /var/lib/postgres/data` command where `-D` is the default location where the database cluster must be stored. If you want to change this you must visit the link ahead: https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/PostgreSQL#Change_default_data_directory . The locale for the data will follow the computer default one. Then you can exit the postgres user with the `exit` command.

Then, now, we have a database cluster, that is, a place to store databases. When you create a new database it is stored there and become available systemwide. You must now start the database process with the `systemctl start postgresql.service` command as root, or make it run in system start with `systemctl enable postgresql.service` command. Then you can enter the postgres user again and create a new database user for the server withe the same name as your linux user, so that you don't need to login to make database commands. This can be done with the command `createuser --interactive <your_user>`. Now you can exit the postgres user shell.

To create your first database you just need to execute the `createdb "name"` command. And now you have a "name" database in your system. To access it with a GUI we can use the `DBeaver` software. Just specifies the name of the database and the user that will access. The program access the information in the port `5432` in localhost by default. But if you want to access the database of other computar you can specify the `ip` number. You can connect via ssh too which is more secure.

