# The Serverless computation, an introduction
The serverless computational paradigm is a execution model where the logic in the serverside is stateless, only functioning with triggers. The definition is associated with "Functions as a service"(FaaS), which means that we want to focus on the in the implementation and not in how it will be deployed or executed by the server, this is done with containers that are managed by a thirdparty, like *AWS*.

A "serverless" service isn't really executed without a server. In reality the management of these servers is done as a service. In this context, the application is developed in a way that makes this feasible and you are billed only by the time your function gets executed.

The benefits are scalability and affordability as you don't have a cloud server runing 24/07 only for you, with *RAM* and processing power being allocated and not used by you. The computational weight managing is done by the hosting provider and it stores your functions in it's cloud infraestructure waiting for a trigger to execute.

To exemplify this structure we can talk about a service where you have a website where you must take a photo sent by the client side and convert it to a thumbnail. There's a service in the *AWS* called `i3` that is used to store data like this, photos. So the client side send this photo and when arriving in the `i3` bowl it triggers the execution of a function that converts it to the thumbnail and delivers the processed data back, besides that it registers some information in a *DynamoDB* database. So you don't have the infrastructure, the only thing you have to pay attention is the function and how it will behave and be very efficient. 

There are applications that aren't good contenders for the serverless framework. One of the caviates from serverless is the absence of state. I mean, serverless is also stateless. That means that there isn't any kind of persistent volatile memory between function calls. So, a server that relies in high frequency information saving can't be done in serverless as these informations would need to be saved in nonvolatile databases and accessed from there all the time. An example for this type of application are financial trading applications.
