# Initial configuration for the AWS CLI and account
Here we will see how to configure the aws cli.

## Authentication
First we need to authenticate the `cli` client. So go to the `IAM` (Identify and Access management) section in your `AWS` Management Console.

Go to the `Users` tab and create a new user. It's not advised to registre your root user in the cli client, as this is a security vulnerability.

So create a user with `User name`, and let the rest as default with autogenerated password. Then `Attach existing policies directly` with `AdministratorAccess` checked on.
This isn't advised in a production environment, as you want to add just the permissions required to what you want to do.
But, here, as we are learning, leave this as it is, and latter when you understand better what the permissions your cli user needs, you can adjust these configurations.

Now you have your new user. You ara granted with an `Access key ID` and a `Secret access key` and you will need both to register your cli client.

Now run the command `aws configure` and follow the prompt with the requested information.
For the location it's good to find a balance between what is close to you and what has all services you are looking for. Not every region has every service. For the sake of reliability you can choose any one from the us, like `us-east-2` that is from Ohio.

## Billing allert.
Other thing you must do is to configure alerts to assure that you will not have surprises in the end of a month when the paycheck arrives.

Check if the option `Receive Free Tier Usage Alerts` is checked. It better be so that the aws will send emails warning that your `Free Tier` services package is on the limit.

You can stipulate a monthly budget too so that when this limit is surpassed you are alerted. There are several methods for the allert, like with trashholds and even forecast values (aws makes a projection of the total monthly fee, and checks if it surpasses the thrashhold).


